= freedoom(6)
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
:doctype: manpage

== NAME
freedoom - Automatically launch Freedoom with an engine

== SYNOPSIS
*freedoom* [_-p_ _DOOMPORT_|_--_] [_ARGS_]

== DESCRIPTION
Freedoom is a project to create a complete free-content game based on
the _Doom_ engine (often called “source ports” or simply “ports”),
which itself is free software.  In addition, it maintains
compatibility with _Doom_ itself and is capable of playing the wide
variety of modifications (“mods”) that have been released by an
active community since 1993.

This command is a simple shell script to assist in running Freedoom,
which is not a game engine itself nor part of any engine project, but
playing Freedoom should remain simple.  The script tries to
automatically select an engine based on a hard-coded list, but three
overrides are available, in order of precedence: command-line
argument, environment variable, and a +$HOME/.doomport+ symbolic link.
Passing _-p DOOMPORT_ runs Freedoom using the _DOOMPORT_ specified.
Setting the _DOOMPORT_ environment variable is similar, running the
engine specified in the variable.  An additional permanent setting is
via the +$HOME/.doomport+ symbolic link, which may point to an
executable to run.

Additional arguments passed to the program, or after specifying _--_
as the first option, will be passed to the engine being called.  This
can allow you to use options such as _-file_ to load mods or anything
else available with the engine of choice.

== COPYRIGHT
Freedoom is licensed under a permissive three-clause BSD license.  For
details, see the source tree or the +COPYING+/+COPYRIGHT+ file that
was installed by distribution packaging.

This manual page and the launcher script are both placed under the
public domain.

== SEE ALSO
chocolate-doom(6), crispy-doom(6), prboom-plus(6)

https://doomwiki.org/wiki/Parameter
